Mobile phones consume our day, do you agree?

If not you’ll agree very soon!! Not warning you but reminding you that the early morning alarm is from your very smartphone and the end-day task completion is also by your exclusive smartphone. Hence App developers have taken the responsibility of building awesome applications which make your day productive even after it is being consumed by your smart mobile phone!


APIs toh trending hai, so every app developer will use but actually this is not the way it goes. Rather than APIs hai to easy hai, that is why App Developers tend to use APIs in their applications.


Eventually, the title is getting slowly justified that App Development is empowered by APIs.To understand more, pick up any random app and it will ask you to give access to your location, how are app developers able to add this feature everywhere??



Developers either create APIs or use third-party APIs. So easily you might have gotten by now that developers must be using third-party APIs, yes you are right. Developers use third-party APIs as they work just by integrations and save time, money and of course energy.


There are many third-party APIs available which are readily used nowadays:


Google Analytics API: This option also comes in high demand and makes it easy to tailor monitoring information for a website or mobile app. The gathered information may be examined and tailored to the appropriate audience.


YouTube Data API: With the help of this API, the developer may include YouTube features in their mobile application. This includes all of the many YouTube capabilities, including the ability to submit videos, modify channel settings, and manage playlists and subscribers.


Google+ API: To give app consumers an engaging experience, developers may leverage Google+ API. The API incorporates social features into mobile apps so that consumers may interact with other app users.


Google Maps API: A popular public API, Google Maps uses a basic JavaScript/Flash interface to allow Google Maps to be embedded on web pages. It is capable of functioning on iOS, Android, and desktop browser programmes. Along with regional localization and geocoding, it offers language localization for more than fifty different languages.


Create, view, and change public calendar events using the Google Calendar API. If the user has permission to do so, they can also view private calendars. Additionally, integration with Google Calendar and associated elements like access restrictions is made possible through the API.


These third-party APIs are to make the user experience smooth and easy. 


Eventually one might forget the design or the UI but every user takes with it the experience which is unique for everyone. APIs make it easy to make the user experience a memorable affair.


To understand better, APIs serve as a key tool and facilitator for expanding a company's reach beyond its present bounds. APIs provide quick delivery and simple integration. Therefore, an organisation may package assets along with those of partners and provide them on mobile applications, where people use them. Because of this, IT departments that wish to share their data with more users and promote engagement now prioritise API management more.


Henceforth, the developments in the field of APIs are justified. It is helping App developers and people to have easier management and plan a productive day being consumed by smartphones. One can also deduce that APIs are Empowering App Development and hand-in-hand people use applications on their smartphones. 


Hope this blog covers your doubts and fills in the voids related to APIs and their usage in App Development!

